Primary keys (#4986)
confluentinc/ksql: docs-md/developer-guide/ksqldb-reference/create-stream.md

--------

```sql
CREATE STREAM stream_name ( { column_name data_type (KEY) } [, ...] )
  WITH ( property_name = expression [, ...] );
```

Description
-----------

Create a new stream with the specified columns and properties.

> A ksqlDB STREAM is a stream of _facts_. Each _fact_ is immutable and is unique.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A ksqlDB STREAM is a stream of _facts_. Each fact is immutable and unique.

```

A stream can store its data in either `KEY` or `VALUE` columns.
Both `KEY` and `VALUE` columns can be NULL. No special processing is done if two rows have the same

> key. The table below contrasts this to a [ksqlDB TABLE](./create-table):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
key. This situation is handled differently by a [ksqlDB TABLE](./create-table), as shown in the following table.

```

|                          |  STREAM                                                       | TABLE                                                             |
| ------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------| ----------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Key column type          | `KEY`                                                         | `PRIMARY KEY`                                                     |

> | NON NULL key constraint  | No                                                            | Yes <br> Messages in the Kafka topic with a NULL `PRIMARY KEY` are ignored |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| NON NULL key constraint  | No                                                            | Yes <br> Messages in the Kafka topic with a NULL `PRIMARY KEY` are ignored.|

```

> | NON NULL key constraint  | No                                                            | Yes <br> Messages in the Kafka topic with a NULL `PRIMARY KEY` are ignored |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| NON NULL key constraint  | No                                                            | Yes <br> Messages in the Kafka topic with a NULL `PRIMARY KEY` are ignored.|

```

> | NON NULL key constraint  | No                                                            | Yes <br> Messages in the Kafka topic with a NULL `PRIMARY KEY` are ignored |

Reviewer 2: This is true for now (since we only support unwrapped primitive keys), but it won't be true in the future if we support single-element wrapped keys right?

Author: In a strict SQL sense this should remain true for wrapped and multi-column primary keys. Primary key columns in SQL must be NON NULL.

The main reason for this is that an SQL NULL is not comparable to another SQL NULL, i.e. `NULL = NULL` returns `false`.  So a `NULL` value in a primary key could never be matched.

| Unique key constraint    | No <br> Messages with the same key as another have no special meaning | Yes <br> Later messages with the same key _replace_ earlier |

> | Tombstones               | No <br> Messages with NULL values are ignored                 | Yes <br> NULL message values are treated as a _tombstone_ <br> Any existing row with a matching key is deleted |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Tombstones               | No <br> Messages with NULL values are ignored                 | Yes <br> NULL message values are treated as a _tombstone_ <br> Any existing row with a matching key is deleted.|

```

Each column is defined by:

>  * `column_name`: the name of the column. If unquoted the name must be a valid

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * `column_name`: the name of the column. If unquoted, the name must be a valid

```

>    [SQL identifier](../../concepts/schemas#valid-identifiers) and will be converted to uppercase.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   [SQL identifier](../../concepts/schemas#valid-identifiers) and ksqlDB converts it to uppercase.

```
